Let's first talk about finding clients online.
There's several popular large freelancer Web sites you can create profiles for and start getting your
portfolio out there as well as actively bid for client work.
The more well-known of the bunch is up work.
It's a great reputable site for seeking freelance work.
Simply build a profile which we'll do together in the section of the course.
And once you're approved you'll be searchable by thousands of potential clients.
You can also apply to freelancing jobs by submitting proposals which will include specific things the
client requests like certain portfolio types and pieces a written cover letter or other types of requests.
This platform like many others listed here are oversaturated with current freelancers.
So just be aware it's still worth the effort.
Building a profile here.
But there's heavy competition and all make finding those first few clients a bit tough.
Sometimes lowering your hourly rate for the first two project is necessary to start building that social
proof which we'll talk about when we build that profile together here shortly.
People per hour is similar to upper.
And the fact that you create a profile and you're able to not only seek out jobs by sending proposals
but clients can find your profile listed on the Web site too.
Three things that make people per hour a bit different than up work.
First of all there's less competition on people per hour as it's a newer platform.
Second they offer the ability to have a portfolio type profile which contains more photos than the upward
profiles.
And lastly they have something called offers offers give you the ability to post an offer that will
be seen on the Web site for potential clients to see.
This can be anything from I can build a five page WordPress Web site to I can create a social media
post in less than 24 hours.
If you're familiar with fiber it's a very similar concept.
And speaking of fiber freelancers either hate our love fiber but most freelancers have not found huge
success on fiber.
Although a small percentage still do this site with an insane amount of competition gives you the ability
to post a gig on their Web site allowing others to purchase your offer and add add ons these add ons
can increase the total price you receive as a freelancer and these add ons can be things like decreasing
the time and delivering the project.
Or it could be sending extra file types not all projects are priced at five dollars although that is
the standard rate.
There is something called fiber pro that requires you to apply to get accepted as a vendor.
If you have a great portfolio and some experience there might be a good chance of being accepted there.
Fiber pro gives freelancers the ability to charge much higher prices and have access to different networks
of people.
Some gigs can exceed 2000 dollars.
The key hurdle here is getting accepted into their program.
But since you have a great portfolio and personal brand it's worth a try the next thing I want to talk
about is trying free are spec work spec work or speculative work is working on a project before getting
paid if at all.
And it's one way to improve and fill your portfolio with real client projects.
I highly encourage you to seek out spec work that is non-profit based so you can help others in need
but also build your portfolio spec work should only be done for fun and for practice.
I encourage my students to pursue spec work only if the project will be enjoyable and fulfilling and
could be added to your portfolio in a positive way.
Are open up new connections for you spec work on online Web sites like the examples here don't encourage
building client relationships.
So I would proceed with caution unless once again this is a purely fun exercise for you pro bono work.
Who says working for free has to be unfulfilling.
There's several places to volunteer your services to clients in the nonprofit space.
There's even a Web site called Catch a Fire dot org that lists nonprofit companies needing work in a
wide variety of fields.
This is great for getting your foot in the door at several smaller or even larger nonprofit companies.
There's also the possibility that your free services you offer them could turn into paid if they really
enjoyed your project work.
Are they possibly get funding for more projects.
It's a gamble but also a great way for a client testimonials.
Social proof reviews and getting experience working on projects that you would normally not get the
chance to and now it's time to talk about social media and networking.
A big part of finding clients online is networking and it's just as valuable as networking off line.
There are several professional networking sites who want to be on as a freelancer who's wanting to expand
those connections.
The obvious first choice is LinkedIn scum connect with anyone in your current network.
The great thing about LinkedIn is being able to see and connect with your connections connections.
There's also the ability to private message connections as well for a more knocking on the door approach
to selling yourself.
Not everyone feels comfortable doing that but with a common connection and might seem a bit easier and
a more natural way to introduce yourself.
Do not underestimate the power of networking and Facebook groups.
The key here is finding the right group to connect with.
If you're a wedding photographer it's great to connect with other wedding photographers in a group.
But for finding client work perhaps going where your target audience hangs out in this case a wedding
planning group or a group for wedding planners might be a good choice graphic.
Are Web designers might want to hang out in a small business group full of small business owners naming
branding or marketing web site design work.
A tip here is to make sure not to post a generic post when first joining the group.
You need to spend some time investing in the group in the community helping others out before even thinking
about telling others about your services.
I personally run a large Facebook group myself and those who post their services right away when joining
raise a big red flag with me.
But after they participate in the group for a little while I start to allow them to mention their services
every once in a while.
As long as it doesn't seem a little spammy share your expertise.
There are several social media sites where you can start to share your knowledge and expertise with
the world.
You can live stream on YouTube or post helpful videos.
You can live stream on Facebook and even start your own Facebook group that will attract those who seek
your skill set.
Remember when posting on social media to include those relevant hashtags.
Those hashtags are searchable on platforms and make it easier for your target audience to locate you.
For example if you're a calligrapher who does custom stationery designs why not host a calligraphy style
livestream that shows off different calligraphy lettering styles or if you're a UX UI designer and you
host a free webinar to small business owners looking for tips and tricks to building that great e-commerce
Web site.
There are so many ways to put yourself out there through the use of helpful posts videos live streams
and articles this naturally leads to the next idea become an online guru in your skill set.
A lot of creative freelancers are scared to put themselves out there mostly because they feel like they're
not top talent.
I still think there's a lot of opportunities with those with just intermediate skills especially in
those top demand skill sets like web design.
Not only can this help you find client work through speaking and networking opportunities but will also
help you land clients by having some of those helpful videos articles that you've written on your blog
and on your portfolio Web site.